We're taking an image already, that's great,
now we want to take that image and get it onto our server.
Now first of all, the image we have right now only lives in the canvas,
now we need a blob,
we need a file basically, so we can upload that file. The image in the canvas
happens to be a base 64 URL.
Theoretically we could upload that and store it in the database but storing such long strings which are
quite big in a size perspective too isn't really what you should do in a database,
we want to store files and you do that on your favorite file server, on your own server or since we
use Firebase, we can use their storage.
So what I'll do is I convert the canvas base 64 URL to a blob,
so to a file and for that attached to this video, you'll find a text file with a utility function which
we'll therefore add to utility.js file at the bottom simply which is called dataURItoBlob
and this will convert a given base 64 URL to a file.
Now that is all I want to do here,
so with that I'll go back to the feed.js file and I'll add a new variable at the top
which I'll name picture and initially this is just null or simply undefined.
However down there where we click that capture button after we stopped all streams, I'll set picture equal
to dataURItoBlob and pass my canvas element to data URL method result in there. To data
URL will simply give me this base 64 representation of the canvas image and with that, I'm converting
it to a blob,
so to a file I can use and I'll later use this to upload it.
Well later actually is now.
Now how do we upload an image now to our server though?
Keep in mind that we're interacting with our server through the service worker mainly, through background
synchronization. The very bottom, we're not at the very bottom but at the bottom of the file, we've got
our code where we send JSON data to our own cloud function which will then in turn store it in the
database.
Now it's time to work on that cloud function to no longer accept JSON data but form data
because form data allows us to mix normal key-value pairs with files and now I want to upload that.
Image no longer will be just a string,
it will now be a real file,
so I need to be able to send a different format, form data as I just said.
Of course we also should adjust this in our sent data fallback method in feed.js, here.
So in both places, the goal is to no longer send application/json to that endpoint but to send form
data and for that, we need then to adjust this endpoint to.
Now let's start by adjusting our code here in the service worker and in feed.js though. I'll
start in the service worker, there
we have our sync listener where we have our code, where in the end, we send off a request for each piece of data
we stored for synchronisation.
Nothing wrong with that but now I want to change the format,
it will no longer be content-type application/json and we no longer just accept that, we can actually
just get rid of the header section because it will then automatically infer the correct one once we
start sending form data,
so let's send form data
then. Inside this for loop, I'll create a variable and I'll name it
post data,
you can name it whatever you like
and this is of type form data,
so new form data.
That's a built-in Javascript object,
this of course is a constructor but it gives us an object which is built into Javascript which allows
us to send form data to a back-end through Ajax or in this case actually through fetch. Now form data works
like that,
we simply append data to this object with the append method,
so for example we append the ID. The ID of course didn't really change, it's still dt.id,
that's the second argument to append.
That's what I meant,
you can still send key-value pairs,
nothing wrong with that.
Now another thing you want to send is the title,
that still is dt.title and the same for the location,
dt.location.
So just what we passed with JSON before,
now we append it to our post data.
Now there is a difference though,
we also want to send the image. So I'll call append one more time
and here I want to pass a file, so let's pass file as a name here and then we can call dt.picture
here
to pass, well you guessed it, a picture and we can even override the name of that picture. So we can set this
to dt.id plus .png because the image taken by the camera will be a png here.
Now of course, you could fine tune this to get the mime type of the picture here
and really set it super correctly
but this should absolutely work fine here.
Now with that all added or set up, we can replace our body here to no longer stringify any object here,
just pass JSON data
but we pass post data, just like that,
that's a valid payload for a post request.
The rest of this code can't stay as it is,
we still expect to get back res data
and you could let this accept header accepting application/json
if you wanted to, it's just not mandatory and we're sending this to the back-end.
Now let me copy that code and go to feed.js to update it here too.
Here send data where we send our object there,
let's actually also initialize the form data here,
of course we don't have dt.id here
instead we copy the new date to ISO string here, for the title
we take the title input.value, for the location, we do the same here location input.value
and here for the picture, we just take the picture variable we stored.
So this picture variable which we're setting when we're clicking the capture button, here, this is what I
now pass to that send data fallback method
and of course here therefore, we also use this ID and to make sure it's really always the same, it doesn't
change in-between the two lines here,
we can simply store it in an ID variable here, so that we use ID here and we use ID here for the file name
as well.
And then as before, we replace our body with post data and get rid of the headers, we don't need them
here,
this will now send it to the back-end.
Now one crucial thing that's missing of course is that in the service worker, we expect to be able to get
a picture out of the data.
Now right now if we have a look at the code where we store data to be parsed by background synchronization,
which is in the feed.js file, we don't set this up, right? Here we write data to indexedDB and we use
that later to go through it and send it to the server and we only store ID, title and location
there,
now that of course will not work.
Now the good thing is and I mentioned this earlier, you can simply store files in indexedDB too,
so here I'll store a picture key and I'll assign the picture variable which we set in this feed.js file
which is the data, the image we took with the canvas.
So now we get a picture key stored too in the indexedDB and that of course means that we now can safely
access picture when we go through all the dataset stored there
here. Now the missing thing is the code on the back-end because we didn't adjust this yet,
we would send the post data to the back-end and our back-end cloud function here is not ready to handle that.
It still expects JSON and of course therefore right now, our code would fail. In the next lecture, we'll
turn towards the back-end here and make sure that we can handle incoming post data, including an incoming
file and actually store that incoming file on our Firebase storage which is part of our package.
So let's do that in the next lecture.